I think there was a question also
in chat about another purple
word [LAUGH] in our syntax
highlighting theme here.
So another special keyword
in JavaScript called const.
So const is sort of
an alternative to let that also
helps us declare a variable and
assigned to it.
With const, the value of the variable
that I'm creating can't ever be changed.
So with let,
we saw that I can use the equals operator,
the assignment operator to assign
a value to the variable, and
I could actually assign different
variables over and over.
I could change the value of
that variable over and over.
With const, I can't do that.
I have to, first of all,
if I'm using const, I'm saying, hey,
JavaScript, remember this value
with this variable name forever and
ever as long as this particular process or
whatever is running.
[LAUGH] So the difference is, with const,
once I have assigned a value to that
variable and I have to assign a variable,
I can't just declare the variable and
not assign it.
I have to assign it a value,
and I can never change the value
that that variable is assigned to.
So that is the difference between let and
const.
And we're going to come back
to that a little bit later.
But just to go back to
our whiteboard here,
this is sort of,
we could think about it as saying,
what did I call that variable?
Unchangeable, Variable or
something like that.
With const, I'm saying, hey, JavaScript,
this value, whatever it is,
A string never give up, let's say,
or never gonna give you up.
JavaScript, I want you to remember this,
I'm gonna use a red arrow
to indicate forever.
I want you to remember that this value,
never gonna give you up,
is the value of my unchanging variable.
So it's kind of a different relationship,
and
we're gonna talk a little
bit about that in a moment.
But what we have to do is we can't just
declare unchanging variable with no value.
I could maybe give it null as a value.
For example, I could say, hey,
JavaScript, remember null forever.
Might not be super useful, but
I could do it if I needed to.
And that association is never gonna
be broken in JavaScript mind.
It's always gonna be the value that
I assigned to this variable when I
declared it.
So const is a alternative to let when we
are creating variables in our programme.
And we're gonna talk a little bit
about the difference between let and
const and
changing values over time a bit later.
So now how about when I use a variable?
So in this case, I have a couple of
phinos that are sort of like values but
not exactly, which are called,
one more time?
>> Expressions.
>> Expressions, excellent, yeah.
So I have a couple of expressions
using variables here.
And essentially, what I can do now,
once I have declared and
assigned a value to this variable,
I can use it like a value in my programs.
So the same way that I could do a,
Let's go back to my console.
So the same way that I could do,
let's say, 42 minus 10.
If I create a variable
called answerToLife and
give it a value of 42, so
declaring and assigning a variable,
there's a Hitchhiker's Guide
to the Galaxy reference.
Now, I can use that just like I would
use the literal value 42 in my code.
So as far as JavaScript sees,
in an expression like this,
it's going to see the word answerToLife,
look for
the value it remembers as
the value of that variable, and
then use that value in whatever
expression you're doing,
whatever operation you're trying to do.
Make sense?
Cool, I see lots of nodding.
I feel like I hear the chat nodding.
[LAUGH] And
similarly, that variable
might be a string, right?
So we can do whatever string
things we usually do, right?
Of like ask for
the uppercase version of the string or
ask the index of some
character in the string.
So depending on what type of
value this variable remembers,
we can use the variable as if
it was that value in our code.
Question so far,
I see a couple of thinky faces.
[LAUGH] So I don't know if there's
thinkie emoji in the chat.
Yes, question.
>> So one thing I've noticed is we don't
specify any data types to these variables,
it's all kinda,
as you said earlier, loosey-goosey.
Can you specify a data type?
So where you have a variable and you only
want it to be a string or you only want it
to be a number, can you do that or
everything is just kind of what it is?
>> Loosey-goosey, yeah,
so [LAUGH] and I'm sure Mark might
have more to say on this matter.
But essentially, so in JavaScript,
we say that JavaScript has dynamic typing,
and it doesn't really care what type
of value you give it to remember for
particular variable.
So JavaScript itself does
not have the concept of
a variable only of a certain type.
Some other languages do, some
statically-type languages do have that
concept of a number variable versus a
string variable versus a Boolean variable.
JavaScript has the concept of variable.
And so, yes, it is super
loosey-goosey in JavaScript, and
that can cause all kinds of headaches.
So the industry or
the community as it were has come
up with ways to deal with that,
which you can also learn about in other
courses on Frontend Masters, for example.
The most popular of which,
Mark, you wanna chime in?
[LAUGH]
>> TypeScript.
So TypeScript, as the name might suggest,
is a JavaScript-ish language
that has stronger types.
And in TypeScript,
you can do exactly this.
So you can say this thing, this variable
is gonna always hold a value of this type.
Or we're gonna talk later about functions,
you can say this function is going to
always require a number as an input.
JavaScript itself doesn't have that.
So that's why languages like
TypeScript have been invented, created.
And it's not the only one, but
it's probably the most widely known and
used by far in order to work around this.
So great question, and the answer is,
nope, JavaScript don't care.
It's just, you do whatever you want.
[LAUGH] Yeah, good question.
Okay, let's take a moment and
talk about names for variables.
So I said before that I can name the
variable whatever I want, that was a lie.
I lie, I can name the variable
almost whatever I want.
So what are valid variable
names in JavaScript?
Well, they usually contain mostly letters,
sometimes they have other things,
like underscores or numbers in them.
And so the top three bullets
in this list here are all
perfectly legal valid
variable names in JavaScript.
The most common thing you'll see is
variables of the first form, so where
you have validVariable with a lowercase
valid and then a capital V variable.
You also might see, and
these variable names with underscores
joining the words,
which is less common in JavaScript but
does show up sometimes, but
is more common in other languages.
Python, for example,
you'll see a lot more of the second type
of variable name than of the first one.
JavaScript tends to go
towards the first one.
You can do other things, you could start a
JavaScript variable with a capital letter.
You could have numbers in them,
at the end or in the middle.
You could have an underscore.
It's not so common, though, so
it's maybe less normal that you'd see one,
but that's technically fine.
What you cannot do is start a variable
with a number or use other characters or
things like emoji, unfortunate,
actually doesn't know, I don't think so.
[LAUGH] But you can't have an exclamation
point in your variable name, for example.
So that last one, 0chanceThisWillWork,
is so named for a reason.
So the most common type of
variable names or structure of
variable names I should say are in
what we call camelCase In JavaScript.
So camelCase, an example is that
validVariable that we see at the beginning
here, where it's sort
of shaped like a camel.
There's capital letters in the middle that
look like the hump of the camel's back.
So I call it camelCase.
And the second bullet point
here with the underscores.
Anybody know what that's called,
as opposed to camelCase, Paul?
>> Snake case.
>> Snake case, yeah.
You can also have all
caps with underscores,
which is screaming snake case,
and yada, yada, yada.
There's a whole bunch of different
conventions, but in JavaScript,
the convention, and
this is just a preference,
this is just a cultural thing,
is usually camelCase variables.
With the exception of sometimes constants,
things that are never ever gonna change
and that are kind of representing values,
sometimes we have all caps variable for
them or screaming snake case.
Anyway, it's not super
important except to know,
don't start your variables with a number.
Don't put weird characters in them.
When in doubt, go for camelCase.
It's a cute little camel.